
NEWER VERSION STILL ROUGH 

Hello everyone! Welcocme to to the A-teams final project. Project mAUTHra!  A program for security analysts to parse log files for potentially malicious activity on a Linux based workstation machine. mAUTHRA outputs to an easy to read, command line format.
mAUTHra is a tool that any network professional can utalize. At it's core mAUTHra is a log scraping  program that has the capabililty to find; created or deleted new users, any password changes, any attempted changes to root's password, any failed sudo commands, failed root logins, and SSH logins! All of this is done instantly and outputted in an easy to read format. The user has the option to run a queiry for any of these parameters so that the results are talored specificly for the analyst's needs. In addition, the user can instead run all of these at the same time with mAUThra's "ALL" feature! This can offer a much larger review of what is happening when anyone is accessing your network. This is especially helpful because the user can review who who has logged in from inside and outside of the network, without having to parse through these logs in their entirety. Everything you would need to know is displayed for you in a fraction of the time. Additionaly, the results can be written into a one time use file for reference, or an appendable file. Taking this one step farther, with the option to write to an appendable file, you can view the data's history that expands well beyond linux's default configurations. Using this you can detect if beaconing activity is being used, or if there are bandwidth spikes during non business hours. Being able to catalog all of these relevant information in a data historical can really give its user and all-encompassing view of whats happeneing on their network as far as who is allowed on it. /// To add the cherry on top, we have also programmed mAUTHra to have the ability to display this data to its user in a graph/chart. This can be ran against a one time queiry or those data historicals. That way the user can very easily interpret huge amounts of data and displpay it to a non-technical person or use it to flesh out a formal report.  
Follow along with us for this scenerio. Our data analyst 'Akira' is having a normal and productive day at work. Suddenly she starts recieving complaints that the network is running slowly or not at all. After checking in with the IT department, she has confirmed it is neither a connection nor a harware issue. Her next thought is every network security professional's worst nightmare. "What if our network has been compromised?" There are MANY MANY avenues that she has to follow up on to make sure that the security on her end has been covered. If this were any normal malicious actor her firewall or IDS system would have alerted her. She knows that this requiress further investigation. So she makes herself a cup of coffee and rolls up her sleeves. This is going to be a long afternoon but she is confident in her forensic capabilities. Then- from down the hall- she can see her security manager making his way towards her, with all the rage of GODZILLA! She just knows he is going to come in and chew her head off. Especially after she was late getting to work last week because the line at starbucks was too long. She has mere moments before he is at her door and she has to think of something fast! Luckily for her, her good friends at the A-team have just sent her the BETA of mAUTHra. She figures she has nothing to lose, so she fires it up. It loads in seconds and she selects the "ALL" funstions, then selects "YES" to the graphical option. BOOM she has multiple logs already parssed though, the data is already organized in an informal report she can hand off to the incident responce team, and the graph pops up so that she can explain what this data means to her boss. This was all completed in only the moments her boss took coming down the hall. Now when he enters her office it will seem as though she has been going through logs after logs all day. She kicks her feet up and takes a sip of her coffee. She knows that she will be able to go to starbucks again next week with no resistance.  
In conclusion, mAUThra has many capabilities that the user can utilize. From something small like checking if the alerts that they are  getting is just someone in accounting who forgot their password, all the way up to comparing historcal data to see what is usual and unusal on her network as a whole. It can be paired with seims or used as a basic siem itself. It takes the guest work out of the way for analyst, and steamlines one of the most important duties of an analyst- documentation and detection. We believe that in some form or another, anyone who cares about data security should have access to mAUTHra. 

Word count -862 minutes 
Average 5 minute speach- 750 words
Please add to or append as you see fit. I am very open to making this funnier/lighter/ in some ways to keep non-tech people interest, or to ease the burden of our teachers and future employers bc they will be looking at ALOT of stuff. 


Hello everyone! Welcocme to to the A-teams final project. Project mAUTHra!  A program for security analysts to parse log files for potentially malicious activity on a Linux based workstation machine. mAUTHRA outputs to an easy to read, command line format.

Any qualified information technology professional can use mAUTHra right after install to detect malicious log entries. The analyst user can review who has logged in from inside and outside of the network without having to parse through these logs in their entirety. Everything you would need to know is displayed for you in a fraction of the time. 

At its core, mAUTHra is a log scraping program that has the capability to detect the following; user account modifications, password changes, usage of sudo commands, failed password attempts, newly installed programs, and SSH logins. All of this is done instantly and outputted in an easy to read format.

The user has the option to run a query for any of these parameters so that their results are tailored specifically for the analyst's needs. In addition, the user can throw the book at the log files and with mAUThra's "ALL" feature. This can offer a comprehensive snapshot of potentially malicious activity on your network or machine specifically.

Here you can see that mAUTHra offers the option to run any of these tests by simply inputting into a few prompts. You can have this "mini report" ready before your boss even has time to walk over to your desk.
  

Follow along with us for this scenario. Our data analyst 'Akira' is having a normal and productive day at work. Suddenly she starts receiving complaints of strange activity from the users on her network. After checking in with the IT department, she has confirmed it is neither a connection nor a hardware issue. Her next thought is every network security professional's worst nightmare. "What if our network has been compromised?"

There are numerous avenues that she has to follow up on to make sure that the security on her end has been covered. If this were any normal malicious actor her firewall or IDS system would have alerted her. She knows that this requiress further investigation. So she makes herself a cup of coffee and rolls up her sleeves. This is going to be a long afternoon but she is confident in her forensic capabilities. 

Then- from down the hall- she can see her security manager making his way towards her, with a look of rage! She just knows he is going to come in and chew her head off. Especially after she was late getting to work last week because she stayed up too late marathoning Godzilla movies. She has mere moments before he is at her door and she has to think of something fast! 

Luckily for Akira, her good friends at A-Team Industries have just sent her a copy of mAUTHra. She figures she’s got nothing to lose, so she fires it up. After loading in seconds, she runs all test cases against her log files in question.

Almost instantly, Akira hasan idea of what is going on, and an organized data set she can hand off to the incident response team. This was all completed in only the moments her boss took coming down the hall. Now when he enters her office it will seem as though she has been going through log after log all day. She kicks her feet up and takes a sip of her coffee. She knows that she will be able to stay up late again next week no problem.

In closing, mAUTHra can be added into anyone's arsenal. It is a simple, yet powerful tool. From something small, like checking if the alerts that they are getting is just someone in accounting who forgot their password, all the way up to comparing data to see what is usual and unusual on her network as a whole. mAUTHra can be paired with SEIMs or used purely as a basic siem itself mAUThra can identify which techniques an attacker has attempted,  and what they’ve done inside your network. Its can also can help flesh out an incident report and even show trends in network history, all tied together in a simple and easy to use interface.



















